What we're going to cover tonight are 17
sentence structures. Each one of these
things is a machine that activates
something inside of another person's
brain and makes their neurology do all
of the work. You're not going to argue,
not going to push for any of these
sentences I'm going to give you. You're
delivering the architecture in their own
brain is going to finish the job.
The specific words I say tonight,
they're just examples. The words are
going to change every single time.
Situation is going to be different. The
person changes. But I want you to
understand the architecture.
There's something underneath every one
of these 17 sentences that connects all
of them. But I'm not going to tell you
what it is yet. I'd rather show you than
tell you.
This was discovered and it was
discovered over and over independently
by people who never met, never read each
other's work across probably 2500 years.
So Socrates, he asked questions that
made the other person's own logic kind
of eat itself alive. He'd sit across
from the smartest person in Athens and
in four or five sentences that person
would be publicly contradicting
themselves and and they wouldn't really
understand how it all happened. If you
look at Cicero, Cicero didn't win all of
these trials by arguing harder. He spoke
sentences that preloaded
the jury's conclusions before the
defense ever even stood up. And if you
want to look at a different genre of
people, let's talk about cult leaders.
It's the exact same architecture.
Manson, Jonestown, Nexium cult. So, the
recruiter doesn't ask for anything when
they're joining a cult. The recruit
volunteers these things or at least it
feels like they're volunteering. If you
go to a different uh persuasion
scenario, a suicide hotline, a person
calls in, they want to die. One sentence
can change something. If you look at
hostage negotiation, the FBI model, the
negotiator is not waiting for yes.
They're waiting for two words. We want
the words that's right in the other
person's head. So, it means that their
brain adopted my reality as reality.
These sentences tonight that we're
learning are going to be divided into
different families. And each family is
something that a sentence can do to a
human brain. So, four families. We're
going to go through 17 of these
architectures.
Let's go.
In this first family, these are
sentences that make the other person
argue your position for you. They have
one thing in common. You never ever ever
state your position. You build a
sentence where the only available exit
is through a door that you built for
them to come walking through. So, they
argue for you. They build the case and
they think it was their own idea.
Sentence number one, this is called the
reversal. A person calls in, they're
sobbing, calling into a suicide crisis
hotline. They want to die. The person on
the other end of the phone, the the
counselor, let's call it, they ask, "How
much do you want to live on a on a scale
of 1 to 10?" So, they say, "I don't
know, three." And the counselor on the
phone says, "Why didn't you say two?"
And the person right away starts
explaining why life is worth living. So
it's put them into that frame
automatically. They didn't tell them to
do that. They didn't convince them. The
architecture of that sentence left only
one direction to move which is toward
arguing for survival. So that's called
reversal. We establish a position the
listener already holds. Then we ask why
they don't hold a weaker version of it.
The only way to answer is to defend the
stronger position which is who's yours?
An example is you know
this is obviously keeping you up at
night.
What is stopping this from being
something that you just ignore? That's a
reversal. They can't answer that
question without building the case for
why it matters. They're going to list
every reason it's important. Why they
can't walk away. It's important to my
family. You did not ask why does this
matter to you. What you're asking is why
can't this just be dismissed. Sentence
number one, it's the purest expression
of what all 17 do. We create conditions.
That's your job as an author.
Sentence number two, this is called the
impossible question. So an example of
this would be, what would need to be
true for this to feel like the obvious
move? So, there's no answer to this
question that takes them further from
where you want them. None. Every single
response builds this path forward and
they're the ones drawing the map for
you. But then there's a word in there.
The word is obvious. It's the structural
key to this. You're not asking that
person to justify some hard decision.
What are you asking them to do? Describe
the conditions under which the decision
would not require thought, which is a
big deal. And that's the key essence of
of sentence number two. So by the time
they finish answering, they've kind of
constructed a reality where the path is
a little more simple. Another example of
this, you know, I'm just curious. I've
got to ask you if if there's just one
thing standing in the way, just one,
what would it be? But two things happen
like if they're able to answer that
question, the barrier shrinks because we
know what happens when we call out
scripts. We name a fear and naming a
fear makes it smaller. This is the
essence of Rumple Stillilskin. That's
why that is a timeless tale. It's built
into our head. We name something we're
afraid of, we can make it smaller and
less powerful. We didn't say this out
loud, but what we're secretly getting
them to tell us if is this if this one
thing was handled,
the path would be clear. Sentence number
three, this is the presupposition. You
know what was the moment that you
realized that this was something that
you needed to do? Count the
presuppositions buried in the sentence.
What was which means there was a moment
that existence is assumed for that. You
realized a realization has already
occurred. This was something that you
needed to do. The need is a fact. So
there's three presuppositions in one
sentence. So the architecture of this
thing is you want to embed your desired
conclusion in the grammar of a question.
And another example, what finally made
it click? They're not questioning
whether anything really clicked. The
sentence kind of told them it did. Their
brain is going to construct uh the
moment of clarity out of thin air, even
if it didn't exist 5 seconds ago. So,
this is how every good hypnotist in
history worked. They don't tell you to
relax. They ask you what you notice when
you begin to relax. And those are very,
very different things. that question is
the the delivery vehicle here.
So then we get into family number two
and family number two is sentences that
collapse resistance.
These are kind of wall dissolving
questions. They name what's happening
inside of somebody precisely
to kind of get them to stop pretending,
be more open and and present. And it's
not because we're breaking through
somebody's wall. It's just that there's
nothing left to break through.
And this is called the label. It sounds
like this might might feel like a trap
no matter what the choice is. And even
if I make a choice, something is it
sounds like something's getting lost. So
this is the architecture that hostage
negotiators and the best therapist in
the world arrived at both probably
independently. When you name somebody's
emotional state accurately and you name
somebody's emotional state before they
found a word for it themselves, their
nervous system registers that another
human being just saw what's actually
happening inside them. And the emotion
loosens the grip on that person. Every
unnamed emotion controls you and
controls your life. So all we're doing
is helping them to name the emotion that
we want to loosen the power of. If I can
name it, I can allow that person to
observe it. So the act of labeling moves
it from brain stem to cortex. It goes
from something that's happening to them,
something that they can see. You want to
name that person's internal state.
That's the key. In their language, not
your language. So the words they would
use if they could find them. Another one
is I get why you're upset about this and
what what you're saying right now. It
doesn't sound like anger. sounds like
hurt. Uh, and those are very different
things. This is preframing, right? So,
we're still in the same category, but
I'm refraraming what they thought was
anger. How many times have you been
pissed off and your brain goes, I am
experiencing anger right now. So, I get
to jump in. The moment that you're
feeling that emotion, you haven't
labeled it yet. So, I get to jump in and
label it for you. And your brain accepts
it. 99% of people can't tell anger from
hurt in themselves, especially when the
emotions are running high. So, the
entire relationship to the situation
starts shifting here cuz anger fights,
hurt softens up. The person who was
fighting just a few seconds ago,
automatically, just like we relabeled
that what they're feeling, and they just
become somebody who needs to be heard.
And one way to do it if you're talking
to a person that's defensive is to start
off by saying I may be wrong about this,
but I know that I've been in this
situation many, many times and here's
what I did. And you talk about the
mistake that you made. Every time I got
upset about something, I was mixing up
anger and hurt because they feel so
similar to each other. you talk about
your own mistakes and you're
automatically going to get the defensive
person since you're talking about you to
start uh doing a scan in themselves to
see if they're making the same mistake.
Chris Boss has used this in kidnapping
negotiations in real life and it's very
effective. The moment that person heard
their emotion named back to them, what
comes back in their head is that's
right, you see me. And and once a person
feels seen, the war is just about over.
This is the witness. A great example
that you could just keep in your pocket
pretty much word for word is, you know,
I I can tell that you you carry a lot
for other people and
it just seems like nobody's ever said
that out loud to you. So, we're naming
what someone has been, who they've been,
maybe their whole life, and we're going
to tell them that it's visible, that
someone finally sees it. And when a
person feels genuinely witnessed the
critical factor of our brain, the
default mode network disappears at that
moment. The prefrontal cortex slows all
the filtering stuff and you didn't trick
the brain. So what happens is every time
that we feel seen, our brain says you
are safe and we cannot control that
switch. I know you had a voice in your
head just now that was like, nah, I
probably can't. We can't uh we can't do
that. which is why what makes this
technique one of the hardest. If you
don't actually see what you're naming,
they're going to feel the emptiness and
and the wall goes up harder than than it
did before. So, this requires you to
have been paying attention in the
conversation pretty genuinely. And
another example of this that you could
use pretty much anywhere is, you know, I
think there's a kind of person who never
lets anybody see him struggling. They
just handle it
mostly quietly for years and nobody ever
asks them if they're okay because
they're so good at just looking fine.
It's a big moment. This is a huge moment
for people. You're describing a type of
person. I didn't say you. I didn't I'm
not saying here's who you are. So,
you're talking about the world. I'm
making an observation about the world.
And the person right across from us is
hearing their whole life described.
After you deliver this little sentence,
something's going to happen in that
person's face that you will never forget
the first time you see it. And I call it
a a micro collapse. This little mask
that they've been maintaining softens
for about a second. And what you do in
that half second defines like who you
are as a human being.
This is the voluntary confession. An
example of this is and I want you to
really feel like we've been in a
conversation for a while and I stopped
just for a minute and I paused and I
looked at you and I said, you know,
John, I I just want to say that there's
something that's not being said and
I want you to know whatever it is, I can
handle it. So that's two architectures
in one here. First, there's something
that's not being said, and I want you to
know the difference between that and
you're not saying something or you're
not telling me something. So, you've
named the existence of something without
accusing anybody. Second thing that's
happening here is I can handle it. Not
it's totally safe for you to talk to me.
How manipulative does that sound? I can
handle it communicates a lot of
strength. So, whatever this thing is,
it's not going to break me. It's not
going to change anything between us.
Another great one, this little
confession uh sentence here is, you
know, the thing that's hardest to say is
probably the thing that actually matters
here. You notice I put a big pause in
there. And all this is is just like a
Socratic philosophical observation. I'm
not pointing it or aiming it at anybody.
We're describing a pattern like we're
making an observation about the world
and how people navigate hard
conversations and they saw themselves in
it. You didn't put them in the
situation. They saw themselves in it. So
the confession that comes after is
volunteered instead of extracted out of
somebody. So you made the cost of
silence heavier than the cost of truth.
That's basically what an interrogation
is. How can I make silence or denial
very costly to this person? I want to be
straight with you really quick. NCI
level 4, which is called grad school.
It's my life's work. 20 years in the
Navy. Every hour of research, every
program that I've ever built in my life,
the entire NCI system, all leads here.
This is the reason Dr. Phil called me
the best in the world at what I do. It's
why you've seen me on pretty much every
podcast on the planet. It all comes from
this. Think about the last time you
walked into a room where you were
outmatched, outranked, the other side
had lawyers and leverage and pretty much
every structural advantage and you sat
there knowing that you were about to get
handled and there was nothing you could
do about it. You felt it before anybody
even opened their mouth. NCI4 flips that
permanently. You're going to learn the
most advanced methods in the world. I
guarantee it. with influence formulas
that stack multiple techniques and
sequences to produce outcomes most
people wouldn't even believe are
possible.
This is the permission. And just with
this, let's start with like a simple
example. You're allowed to want this
explicit verbal permission by another
human being to want what they want. We
get permission to work, permission to
suffer. When was the last time somebody
looked you in the eye and said you're
allowed to want something for yourself?
It's a deeper moment. And imagine if you
followed like this, the confession
strategy and then said this and then did
the observation like I can tell you're
this type of person. I know you're going
through a lot and then this then layered
this on top. Sentence says basically the
obligation isn't real. The architecture
of this is we want to identify the thing
that somebody obviously wants but
they've been denying themselves. It
applies in every conversation. The other
person wants something and they've been
denying it to themselves. It's never
permission to have something. It's
permission to want it. Those are very
different things.
So sentence number eight is a reframe.
Somebody says, you know, John, I've seen
this a lot. And that's not fear. That's
your body telling you that this actually
matters. So, we're changing a person's
relationship to their own internal
experience. You take the label somebody
has put on their own experience. We're
going to take a little fingernail on the
corner, peel that off, and then put a
new label on there that serves the other
person. For it to stick on the door or
that emotion, it has to serve the other
person or it's not sticky. somebody's
anxious, they have some kind of anxiety
and we say, you know, that thing that a
lot of people feel and they call it
anxiety is actually just readiness. So,
we're not changing the body, we're not
changing neurology, we're changing the
story around the feeling. The story is
the only thing that was ever driving the
behavior in the first place. I guarantee
you. So, something that gets filed
inside of a file cabinet of fear, what
protocol is it going to run? It's going
to run the fear protocol. the avoidance,
the withdrawal, the paralysis. The same
experience that gets pulled out of the
fear file and then gets filed under this
is a signal that something matters is
going to run a crazily different
protocol, attention, engagement,
approach, same input, different
processing, different behavior. So, same
input. This is what the best crisis
counselors in the world use in the
middle of somebody's panic attack. They
don't go, "Hey, hey, calm down. Calm
down. Everything's okay. There's nothing
to be afraid of." They say, "Oh,
Jennifer,
this is exactly what the body does when
something important is happening." And
the panic doesn't stop. The person's
relationship to it starts to change. And
that's enough.
Family number three. These are sentences
that install identity. They're about who
somebody is. If we accept an identity,
once we say it out loud or nod at it, or
even if we just fail to correct it, our
neurology is going to enforce it from
the inside. Their own brain becomes the
police force that protects whatever they
we just got them to basically agree to.
Identity confirmation.
It's obvious, but you're you're the one
in the room who actually sees what's
happening.
Has that always been a thing for you or
did something like change for you along
the way? Two moving parts firing at
once. Assigning identity, but it doesn't
feel like we're assigning them anything.
We're recognizing, not assigning. We're
not giving them anything. We're just
pointing at something that was already
there. So that framing, the way that you
frame it, bypasses all the defense.
Nobody resists being accurately
recognized. I want you to think about
that. Second thing that we're doing here
is has that always been a thing or did
something change? Both of those answers
kind of confirm the same identity. Let's
do a different example like a a work
example. You know, the way that just got
handled,
most people
wouldn't have had that kind of
composure.
and the kind of steadiness that you have
that didn't come from nowhere and then
you look at them a little bit and just
be silent. What are they going to say? I
guarantee you they'll go into a story.
100% of people will. So, we're not
asking a question here like we did in in
the last example. We're making a verbal
statement about something we observed
and then we're kind of implying some
depth like that didn't come from
nowhere. We describe what we saw and
then we imply that it has roots. That's
the structure of this thing. they'll
volunteer the rest of the information
and the moment that they volunteer that
information you have locked them into
that identity. Whatever compliment that
you observed. So the architecture really
quick is observe some genuine quality.
We name that quality as identity
using some language that frames you as
noticing that thing. And then step three
is leave a some kind of a door open that
they walk through on their own.
This is the accusation inversion. And an
example is, you know, I I may be wrong,
but to me, it seems like you're probably
not the kind of person who just goes all
in on something because your gut says
to. So, either they're like, "Yeah,
you're absolutely right. I like to get
the details ready." Or their system's
going to fire immediately and they have
to correct you. They No, actually, I am.
I've always trusted my gut. They've
handed you a confession of how they make
decisions either way and you didn't ask
for it. The sweet spot here is an
identity that they want to disprove.
Disproving it makes them look like the
person that they want to be. You might
say, you know, a lot of people reach
this point and they just decide it's
easier to stay comfortable. There's
nothing wrong with that. It's just uh
it's a choice. There's something wrong
with it. Everybody hearing that sentence
knows there's something wrong with it.
But saying nothing wrong with that, you
gave them some space to disagree with
you, right? So, we're setting up a
disagreement trap, which is different
than elicitation.
Sentence 11 is the gap. So, an example
of the gap is, you know, I just got to
say, I'm surprised you're still thinking
about this. That doesn't seem like you.
Instant fracture. So, if they're
hesitating, they now have a problem. You
told them hesitation is inconsistent
with who they are and you said it with
genuine surprise. They have two options.
Confirm they're a person who hesitates,
which is diminished identity, or close
the gap by acting. And you're not going
to close some giant billiondollar deal
with this. This nudges in the right
direction. All of these are nudges. Now,
what do we do? What's our bread and
butter is creating conditions. And each
one of these little things creates a
condition. Another one that hits harder
if you've got the ovaries to use it is,
you know, everything said in the last 5
minutes sounded like somebody who
already knows the answer. Now they have
to go back through what they said and
kind of realize they were building the
case the entire time. So the
architecture here is we express some
genuine surprise to this person. what
I'm seeing in this person. The current
behavior doesn't match the identity that
they've demonstrated for however long
you've known them. So, the surprise has
to sound real here. That's the big one.
If it sounds strategic or rehearsed, it
sounds like manipulation. If it sounds
like you're just noticing something that
doesn't fit, that's the trick here.
Sorry, I'm just uh noticing this thing
that didn't fit. That's all. Their own
brain does the enforcement.
And sentence 12 is the lock. And here's
a a direct example of this. If the
people closest to somebody could
describe what that person stands for in
one sentence, that sentence says
everything about how they're going to
behave when it matters. So what are we
doing? I'm teaching some principle as a
a truth about human behavior. Then
pause. And then I might ask,
so what would they say about you? and
now they're going to answer and it
depends on the situation or you might
say a different question like I think
there is actually a question that
separates people who
drift through life from people who
actually mean something and I think the
question is really what would you fight
for if you knew you couldn't win frame
the question before we asked it what
does that do it sets up their psychology
to hear the question differently people
who drift versus people who mean
something. You can fill in those blanks.
People who blank. So the the
architecture here is you ask someone to
articulate their their deepest highest
value in a way that feels like
self-reflection and then when they
answer their neurology is going to
enforce that so much more ruthlessly
than you could ever hope to enforce
anything in that person's head.
This is the conspiracy. This first
example would sound like, you know, most
people
aren't ready to hear what we're actually
talking about right now. So, there's
instantaneous tribe and group
involvement. Two people in a circle,
everybody else is outside. One sentence,
every cult in history uses a version of
this bonding mechanisms that we've ever
figured out. So, if we feel like I'm
part of a select group, it helps.
So the fourth family is sentences that
create inevitability.
First is the installation. This is
sentence 14.
You know this stopped being about the
money a long time ago. This is about
whether somebody keeps living the same
year over and over. So the architecture
does not enter the existing frame. It
erases the other person's frame.
Whatever they thought it was about,
details, terms, APR, percentages,
whatever. New frame is about identity
and how a life gets lived and reputation
versus transformation. Identity will
beat logistics 100% of the time. There
is no exception. Identity will always
beat logistics. And let's say you're
talking about somebody else and you you
want to talk about somebody else but
still hack this person's identity a
little bit. You want to say, you know
what, at some point it stops being a
decision and it starts being a statement
about who somebody is.
That's a big one. And let's say you're
talking about somebody else, but this
person secretly knows that you view the
world this way, which means that they
secretly know that you view them this
way.
15. This is regression, but something in
the middle of a conversation where
you're saying like, you know, do you
remember the first time somebody really
believed in you? Not like the polite
kind like a elementary school teacher
where they have to kind of kiss your
ass. I mean, like the kind where you
could feel it.
And I think it was different for a lot
of people. What did that feel like for
you? So, we're kind of kicking the adult
offline, even if it's just for a few
seconds. Activate a childhood memory
with enough specificity and you will
create regression. That's all you've got
to do. So, when we say not the polite
kind, it's doing a whole lot of heavy
lifting here because without saying
that, they go to a lukewarm memory. You
could say another phrase like, you know,
there's this thing that happens in
childhood and you take a breath.
Somebody says just one thing, one
sentence at the exact right moment and
it changes the entire trajectory
and 30 years later, 40 years later, you
still remember it. You remember where
you were standing, what the room smelled
like. Whatever you say immediately after
that regression thing while that little
state is still active is going to land
differently than anything that you could
say to the defended armoring calculating
adult version of that person. So that's
you really got to choose anything I say
after confusion statements anything I
say after regression.
Let's go to number 16. The fate
accomplete. So, a year from now, when
you look back on this, what part of it
do you think is going to matter the
most? And that's the first example. Man,
I wasn't going to say this, but I just
got to ask, once somebody actually does
something like this,
the morning after,
what do you think that first feeling is?
And so, I'm pushing it off to someone
else. I didn't say you, right? That
would sound like a weird sales
technique. I'm saying once somebody does
something. So the morning when I say the
morning after it's very concrete it's
very sensory. Their brain isn't
processing a hypothetical. It's I'm you
built a morning. You built it just
because there was specificity there. So
now not making a decision
I've tied it to giving up a feeling that
you've already experienced.
Statement 17, the exit seal. But I do
want to say as we're doing this, you
already know what you need to do and
you've known for a little while. That's
example one. No pitch. There's no push
or anything like that. So, we're just
implying kind of three things at one
time. The answer already exists inside
of the other person. They have been
avoiding it and somebody can see both of
those things. It's a big thing and it's
a short it's a short little example. You
are opening a loop that cannot be closed
by thinking. That's what we're really
doing here. How can I open more loops
that can't be closed by just thinking
about it? So, we had 17 architectures,
but I want you to pay attention to what
one thing that no, none of them did. Not
one of them told you what to think. Not
one of them argued a single position.
Not one of them was persuasive at all.
They were influential,
but persuasion implies convincing.
Right? And here's the one thing that
ties them all together. the loop that I
opened that you couldn't close by
thinking at the very beginning of
tonight's lesson when I said I wasn't
going to tell you what ties them all
together the big thing that they have in
common they created a condition where
the other person's own brain did the
persuading
the deciding committing surrendering
that's the discovery that's the thing
that Socrates found the cult leaders
found the suicide hotline people found
hostage negotiators, trial lawyers, name
it. Parents, good parents. The most
powerful sentence you will ever speak is
one where you say almost nothing and the
other person's entire reality shifts.
And why does it shift? It's not because
of what you said. It's because of what
your their own mind did with what you
said. And those are very different. And
that's why we're creating conditions.
The words will be different every single
time. The structures will never be
different. If you learn these 17, I
guarantee you you get good at them, your
life is going to change. From
neuroscience to microbiology and the
actual hardware underneath human
influence, you're going to stop
understanding this as a concept and
start feeling it work in real time. 40
minutes into that exact same meeting
that you might have been in. These
people are agreeing to terms that they
walked in planning to reject and they
think it was their idea. People come
into this program as professionals and
they leave as something else entirely.
Their marriages change, their income
changes, the way their kids respond to
them changes. I've watched it happen
thousands of times and it still gets me.
And after this, you graduate as an NCI
author. This is the top fraction of a
percent of communicators on the planet.
And that's what I want to turn you into.
That's what the entire NCI system was
built for. If you want to find out if
this is right for you, there is a link
below to book a call with my team or to
learn more. There's no pressure, no
pitch, just a conversation about where
you are and where this can take you.
This is NCI4 grad school. The link is
right down in the description.
>> Authorities are reporting a citywide
manhunt underway.
The world is breathing.
A fragile sound.
No echoes here
on sacred ground.
A quiet pose, a steady beat.
The truth we feel in simple heat.
Bare footsteps
on hollowed ground. A sacred rhythm we
have found
out.
The world just breathes and I can feel
it. A perfect promise. Can't conceal it.
Just shadows leaning on the light.
Another beautiful quiet night.
The past is gone, but we remain
washing over all the pain. A simple
truth,
a feeling pure, a soft connection
to door.
The world just breathes and I can't feel
it. A perfect promise. Can't conceal it.
Just shadows leaning on the light.
Another beautiful quiet night.
Oh.
is quiet night.
What maintains forever
and the world just breathes.